# diffmin

This application patches a file using the diff generated by
[gumtree-spoon-ast-diff](https://github.com/SpoonLabs/gumtree-spoon-ast-diff).
It is similar to the
[patch utility](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/patch.1.html) in Linux
except diffmin also aims to minimise the resultant diff between the two files
by keeping only the AST changes.

## Getting Started

This package is not published yet but one can build the project from source.

### Prerequisites

1. Java 11+ JDK
2. Maven
3. Git

### Installing

1. Clone the repository.
    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/SpoonLabs/diffmin.git
    ```
2. Install dependencies.
    ```shell
    mvn install
    ```

### Build locally

Run the following command which will build a single jar file for this project
and its dependencies.

```sh
mvn compile assembly:single
```

### Usage

Once the jar is built, the main method can be invovked using just one command.

```sh
java -jar target/diffmin-1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar <prev.java> <new.java>
```

## Running the tests

Tests are under `src/test`. They can be run by executing the following command.

```shell
mvn test
```

## Contributing

### License

Licensed under the MIT License. See the `[LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md)` file for more
details.

### Issues

Issues such as bug reports, feature requests, enhancements, or questions can be
reported at the [issues tab](https://github.com/SpoonLabs/diffmin/issues) of
this repository. We don't follow an exact template but please explain your query
as much as possible.

### Pull requests

We welcome pull requests for this project and are always looking forward to
review them.

You can these steps to quickly submit a pull request.

1. Fork the repository.
2. Branch out to `a-meaningful-branch-name`.
3. Make your changes and commit them along with a good summary of the changes as
   the commit message. Refer to the [next subheading](#commit-message-guidelines)
   for the commit message guidelines.
3. Submit your pull request describing the changes introduced in the PR
   description.
4. Get your pull request merged!

### Commit message guidelines

- Commit messages must have a subject line and may have body copy. These must be
  separated by a blank line.
- Make sure the message is concise and not very long. A good commit message is
  ususally atmost 80 characters long.
- The subject line should be capitalised and must not end in a period (.).
- The subject line must be written in imperative mood (*Fix*, not *Fixed* /
  *Fixes* etc.)
- The body copy must only contain explanations as to *what* and *why*, never
  *how*. The latter belongs in documentation and implementation.

## Authors

The list of authors and contributors can be found
[here](https://github.com/SpoonLabs/diffmin/graphs/contributors).
